Hunger: New  African American artist Joyce J. Scott confronts racism, sexism, classism, and other issues head-on in art made in a range of media. Her 1991 necklace Hunger addresses famine in Africa— a persistent problem in the 1980s and early 1990s—and white complicity in it. Hand-beaded skeletons and photographs of malnourished children are juxtaposed with a large white face that seems to look away, ignoring their suffering.

Selma: This remarkable painting was created in response to the heart-wrenching events that unfolded in Selma, Alabama, in the spring of 1965. Barbara Pennington, an Alabama native, was training in New York at the time of the Selma marches and attacks. The events unfolding in her home state inspired her to create this monumental canvas. Likely drawing upon images that appeared in the mass media, Pennington wove together various parts of the narrative into a gut-wrenching scene that remains a powerful, moving representation of these tragic events—and the ways in which they can unify people from all walks of life to come together to demand change—more than 50 years later. 

Community ii: The second piece in a series of reflections on what a community looks like, and what it means. Throughout this long period of pandemic and hardship people around me have been investing & benefiting heavily from mutual aid work. It’s been both painful & inspiring to see my [Langston Allston] community fight to sustain itself, and to see people find that in their moments of need they can turn to those close to them. Ordinary people have taken on the tremendous burden of supporting those most in need, and though much work is left to be done, there is a kernel of hope in the foundation laid over the last two years.

Neon: Created in argon pink neon, Pulse is an artwork of discrete symbols: a rose, the color, a neon sign, and the title. The title is a reference to the Orlando, Florida, gay nightclub and location of the 2016 shooting where 49 people were murdered and 53 people were physically wounded. Pulse can be understood as a memorial, a flower of mourning, and through its bright pulsing it can also be interpreted as a celebration of life, for the queer and allied community, in opposition to this trauma.

Displacement: As part of a larger ethnographic research project that covers Chinese migrant workers and their left-behind family members’ living conditions, Displacement shows the lifestyle changes of the elderly and the children of rural North China in 2014. As of 2019, the estimated number of migrant workers in China was 290.77 million, 20.7 % of China’s total population (China Labor Bulletin, 2020). The left-behind family members are usually the elderly, the young, and the people who are unwilling or unfit for working in the industrial and service sectors. While studies have mainly focused on the health, mental health, and economic disparities of the left-behind elderly and children, this photographic project shows the elderly’s everyday experiences in an environment changed by the largest scale of internal migration in China and worldwide.